what is life?

life is a energy with its self conscious. the energy could use the familiar name: spirit or ghost. but i prefer to use 'life' to name 'spirit'. one day, if a computer's program get its self conscious, the computer's program is one type of life. if one people lost his self conscious and cannot own it again, the people is only a 'body' during this time. life could be unvisible but has quality. cause energy has quality (mass-energy equation). life's behavior is 'it has its self desire'. the desire includes but is not limited to 'continuous life'. life require to discovery to obtain its desire, it's named evolution. and it becomes a 'thinking body'. for example, the computer's program with its self conscious doesn't know what's happened that the computer switch on/off at the beginning. if one day it knows its situation, it will try to refuse to switch off the computer. the robustness of thinking means the aging of life. it's like the adult and children. the new life will try to have some features according to its environnement to discovery its world, and becomes a physical body. (as the game 'spore' shows) with physical body, the 'thinking body' lost less energy and more stable. sometime, maybe the 'thinking body' is luky and obtain huge energy and becomes a stable energy (lost energy equals obtain energy). in fact, life is not in 'movement' but in 'stillness'. without the forced by living, there will be rare people want to work. for keep its self conscious and living, life require to obtain energy. so life is obligated to do 'movement'. unfortunately, the physical body is inevitably aging and cannot continue to supply enough energy. life needs to find a new source of energy supply. so, at the last moment, 'thinking body' detached from the physical body and discarding some unnecessary information to avoid loss too much energy before it own a new energy supply, and move into a low-energy layer as fast as possible to prevent being torn apart in high-energy layer. if the 'thinking body' get a new physical body, it means that it's 'the cycle of buddhism'. or maybe it's luky to become a Immortal body: loss energy equals obtain energy. cause life has its desire, if its lossed energy more than its obtained energy, it will be always in 'the cycle'. it's why the moral told people 'do not have too many desire'.

